README.md, before:

# Apphera
## The open source Internet, social media monitoring and social engagement platform

Apphera is a complete platform, covering the full range of activities you need to cover when planning any kind of social media monitoring, social engagement platform, reputation management or SEO related activities. 

This is the "community" edition which contains basically most of the main component but we have paid much attention to the fact that you might not want to roll it out on 10+ servers but ideally on one machine. 

### Features

* Tracking of online reviews (Qype, Yelp, Pointoo, Hotels.com, Tripadvisor and many more)
* Local and global competitor analysis
* Twitter data mining and engagement
* Facebook
* Keyword tracking for SEO purposes
* Server monitoring for uptime and site delivery speed
* Agency and reseller tools available
* Mapping of competitive landscape
* Influencer identification 
* Tracking of Foursquare activity
* Youtube tracking
* 50+ SEO tasks

## Installation
This solution has been tested EXTENSIVELY with Ubuntu 12.04 LTS. I feel it is a great choice for a Linux platform and developing and testing on one platform let's us find issues way faster than dealing with countless pitfalls. Never less it should run fine on CentOS and other platforms as well. 

### Step 1   
The first step to get going is to copy the initial install script on your machine. For simplicity let's just use SCP  
`scp apphera_ubuntu.sh root@YOURSERVER.COM:/home/`

### Step 2
Ssh into your server, and chmod +x the apphera_ubuntu.sh script and execute it ./apphera_ubuntu.sh 

### Step 3
a)  
Edit the /etc/apt/sources.list file and add at the end:  `deb http://www.rabbitmq.com/debian/ testing main`  
b)  
`sudo wget http://www.rabbitmq.com/rabbitmq-signing-key-public.asc`  
c)  
`sudo apt-key add rabbitmq-signing-key-public.asc`  
d)  
`apt-get update`  
e) 
`sudo apt-get install rabbitmq-server`  
f)  
`sudo rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_management`  
g)  
cd into the apphera home directory which should be at /home/deployer/apphera
`chmod +x apphera_elastic.sh`  
h)  
`./apphera_elastic.sh`  
i)  
`chmod +x apphera_setup.sh`  
j)  
`./apphera_setup.sh`

You are all done! Now you should check if all services are installed correctly:

`sudo service elasticsearch restart`  
`sudo service redis-server restart`  
`sudo service rabbitmq-server restart`  

If that all succeeds you need to start a background worker. For production environment they will be running in the background. For now I recommend to just run them ( 2 or 3 as) - For this you must be in the home dir! /home/deployer/apphera

`QUEUE=* rake resque:work &`  

You are ready to give it a shot. In production you want to use unicorn with nginx or other webserver but for now webrick will do:
When in the home directory type  

`rails s`  
You should now see the webserver starting up. 

at http://YOURSERVER:3000   you can see the website with signup etc.  
at http://eu.apphera.com:55672  You see the message queue server which is password protected for right now just as test/test
at http://YOUSERVER:3000/resque You will see your background workers. If it shows 0 workers you have not started the workers yet (`QUEUE=* rake resque:work &`)

Now you can go ahead and find out what the world of social media thinks about you and your competitors. Have fun!






#### Some things to know about installation

If you don't want to run the automated init scripts or want to use a different database you can do the following:  

1. edit config/database.yml to set your database. PLEASE DO NOT REUSE EXISTING DATABASE NAMES AS THE INIT SCRIPT WILL WIPE IT OUT. 
then issue:  
`rake db:create`  
`rake db:schema:load`  
`rake db:seed`  

Now you should be able to start the application on the command line via:  
`rail s`

Over the next days we will add missing crawler modules etc. which we are preparing now.  Parts of the methods work by connecting to our API right now which happens transparent without any intervention, signup or other actions by you. Stay tuned for more over the next few days!

## Licensing

Apphera is distributed under a dual license: an open source license, and a commercial license. The open source license under which Apphera is distributed is the GNU Public License version 2 (GPLv2). The GPL is the world's most popular open source software license, currently used by nearly 50% of all open source software, including such software as the Linux operating system kernel, the Firefox web browser, and the MySQL relational database management system.   

For many users, the GPLv2 license suits their use of Apphera completely. These users are not distributing proprietary modifications, additions to, or derivatives of Apphera and they do not require the legal protections of a commercial license.  

For other users, the GPLv2 does not suit their use of Apphera. These users wish to use Apphera in ways, products, markets or have other requirements that are not compatible with the GPLv2. To satisfy these demands, Apphera, as the worldwide exclusive licensor of Apphera, offers commercial licensing of Apphera.  

A commercial license to Apphera provides customers the legal means both to modify Apphera and to incorporate it into a product, without the obligation of providing the resulting code under the GPLv2 license. License fees are priced competitively and offer tremendous value for the capabilities delivered. Fees vary depending on the application and the scale of its use. For more information about software licensing, please contact the Apphera Sales department.  

Apphera remains the premier open source social media monitoring and engagement project and development for both Apphera and its components follows the open source model. Apphera provides ongoing commitment and contributions to open source. Apphera's commercial licensing option provides customers with the best possible choice - the innovation and creativity of the open source model, and the protections and flexibility available with traditional, commercial software.  

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Added some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

Commit message:

added German, English and Spanish to language resources

README.md, after:

# Apphera
## The open source Internet, social media monitoring and social engagement platform  
### Now in 3 Languages available: English, German and Spanish


Apphera is a complete platform, covering the full range of activities you need to cover when planning any kind of social media monitoring, social engagement platform, reputation management or SEO related activities. 

This is the "community" edition which contains basically most of the main component but we have paid much attention to the fact that you might not want to roll it out on 10+ servers but ideally on one machine. 

### Features

* Tracking of online reviews (Qype, Yelp, Pointoo, Hotels.com, Tripadvisor and many more)
* Local and global competitor analysis
* Twitter data mining and engagement
* Facebook
* Keyword tracking for SEO purposes
* Server monitoring for uptime and site delivery speed
* Agency and reseller tools available
* Mapping of competitive landscape
* Influencer identification 
* Tracking of Foursquare activity
* Youtube tracking
* 50+ SEO tasks

## Installation
This solution has been tested EXTENSIVELY with Ubuntu 12.04 LTS. I feel it is a great choice for a Linux platform and developing and testing on one platform let's us find issues way faster than dealing with countless pitfalls. Never less it should run fine on CentOS and other platforms as well. 

### Step 1   
The first step to get going is to copy the initial install script on your machine. For simplicity let's just use SCP  
`scp apphera_ubuntu.sh root@YOURSERVER.COM:/home/`

### Step 2
Ssh into your server, and chmod +x the apphera_ubuntu.sh script and execute it ./apphera_ubuntu.sh 

### Step 3
a)  
Edit the /etc/apt/sources.list file and add at the end:  `deb http://www.rabbitmq.com/debian/ testing main`  
b)  
`sudo wget http://www.rabbitmq.com/rabbitmq-signing-key-public.asc`  
c)  
`sudo apt-key add rabbitmq-signing-key-public.asc`  
d)  
`apt-get update`  
e) 
`sudo apt-get install rabbitmq-server`  
f)  
`sudo rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_management`  
g)  
cd into the apphera home directory which should be at /home/deployer/apphera
`chmod +x apphera_elastic.sh`  
h)  
`./apphera_elastic.sh`  
i)  
`chmod +x apphera_setup.sh`  
j)  
`./apphera_setup.sh`

You are all done! Now you should check if all services are installed correctly:

`sudo service elasticsearch restart`  
`sudo service redis-server restart`  
`sudo service rabbitmq-server restart`  

If that all succeeds you need to start a background worker. For production environment they will be running in the background. For now I recommend to just run them ( 2 or 3 as) - For this you must be in the home dir! /home/deployer/apphera

`QUEUE=* rake resque:work &`  

You are ready to give it a shot. In production you want to use unicorn with nginx or other webserver but for now webrick will do:
When in the home directory type  

`rails s`  
You should now see the webserver starting up. 

at http://YOURSERVER:3000   you can see the website with signup etc.  
at http://eu.apphera.com:55672  You see the message queue server which is password protected for right now just as test/test
at http://YOUSERVER:3000/resque You will see your background workers. If it shows 0 workers you have not started the workers yet (`QUEUE=* rake resque:work &`)

Now you can go ahead and find out what the world of social media thinks about you and your competitors. Have fun!






#### Some things to know about installation

If you don't want to run the automated init scripts or want to use a different database you can do the following:  

1. edit config/database.yml to set your database. PLEASE DO NOT REUSE EXISTING DATABASE NAMES AS THE INIT SCRIPT WILL WIPE IT OUT. 
then issue:  
`rake db:create`  
`rake db:schema:load`  
`rake db:seed`  

Now you should be able to start the application on the command line via:  
`rail s`

Over the next days we will add missing crawler modules etc. which we are preparing now.  Parts of the methods work by connecting to our API right now which happens transparent without any intervention, signup or other actions by you. Stay tuned for more over the next few days!

## Licensing

Apphera is distributed under a dual license: an open source license, and a commercial license. The open source license under which Apphera is distributed is the GNU Public License version 2 (GPLv2). The GPL is the world's most popular open source software license, currently used by nearly 50% of all open source software, including such software as the Linux operating system kernel, the Firefox web browser, and the MySQL relational database management system.   

For many users, the GPLv2 license suits their use of Apphera completely. These users are not distributing proprietary modifications, additions to, or derivatives of Apphera and they do not require the legal protections of a commercial license.  

For other users, the GPLv2 does not suit their use of Apphera. These users wish to use Apphera in ways, products, markets or have other requirements that are not compatible with the GPLv2. To satisfy these demands, Apphera, as the worldwide exclusive licensor of Apphera, offers commercial licensing of Apphera.  

A commercial license to Apphera provides customers the legal means both to modify Apphera and to incorporate it into a product, without the obligation of providing the resulting code under the GPLv2 license. License fees are priced competitively and offer tremendous value for the capabilities delivered. Fees vary depending on the application and the scale of its use. For more information about software licensing, please contact the Apphera Sales department.  

Apphera remains the premier open source social media monitoring and engagement project and development for both Apphera and its components follows the open source model. Apphera provides ongoing commitment and contributions to open source. Apphera's commercial licensing option provides customers with the best possible choice - the innovation and creativity of the open source model, and the protections and flexibility available with traditional, commercial software.  

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Added some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
